Move "how ngrok works" content to Gateway section, create new page in About section (#2230)
ngrok/ngrok-docs: gateway/how-it-works.mdx

---
title: How does ngrok's Gateway work?
sidebarTitle: How it works
description: Learn how ngrok's global cloud service and agent software work together to provide secure ingress to your applications.
---

ngrok operates a global network of servers called the _ngrok cloud service_ where it accepts traffic to your upstream services from clients on the internet.
The URLs that it receives traffic on are your _endpoints_.

> You configure _modules_ that ngrok will use to authenticate, transform and accelerate that traffic as it is sent to your upstream service.

Author: ```suggestion
You configure _modules_ that ngrok uses to authenticate, transform, and accelerate that traffic as it's sent to your upstream service.
```

> Unlike traditional reverse proxies, ngrok's Gateway does not transmit traffic to your upstream services by forwarding to IP addresses.

Author: ```suggestion
Unlike traditional reverse proxies, ngrok's Gateway doesn't transmit traffic to your upstream services by forwarding to IP addresses.
```

Instead, you run a small piece of software alongside your service called an _agent_ which connects to ngrok's global service via secure, outbound persistent TLS connections.

> When traffic is received on your endpoints at ngrok's cloud service, it is transmitted to the agent via those TLS connections and finally from the agent to your upstream service.

Author: ```suggestion
When traffic is received on your endpoints at ngrok's cloud service, it's transmitted to the agent via those TLS connections and finally from the agent to your upstream service.
```

---
title: How does ngrok's Gateway work?
sidebarTitle: How it works
description: Learn how ngrok's global cloud service and agent software work together to provide secure ingress to your applications.
---

## Overview

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

ngrok operates a global network of servers called the _ngrok cloud service_ where it accepts traffic to your upstream services from clients on the internet.
The URLs that it receives traffic on are your _endpoints_.
You configure _modules_ that ngrok will use to authenticate, transform and accelerate that traffic as it is sent to your upstream service.

> Unlike traditional reverse proxies, ngrok does not transmit traffic to your upstream services by forwarding to IP addresses.

Author: ```suggestion
Unlike traditional reverse proxies, ngrok's Gateway does not transmit traffic to your upstream services by forwarding to IP addresses.
```

Instead, you run a small piece of software alongside your service called an _agent_ which connects to ngrok's global service via secure, outbound persistent TLS connections.
When traffic is received on your endpoints at ngrok's cloud service, it is transmitted to the agent via those TLS connections and finally from the agent to your upstream service.

You can choose how to run the agent software in different form factors.

> It's lightweight and easy to install.

Author: ```suggestion
You can choose how to run the agent software in different form factors—it's lightweight and easy to install:
```

1. **As a service:** Run a small side process called the [ngrok agent](/agent/) as a background OS service.
1. **As an interactive CLI:** Run the [ngrok agent](/agent/) interactively from the command line while developing and testing.
1. **As an SDK embedded in your app:** Include a small [Agent SDK](/agent-sdks) library directly into your application software that returns a socket-like object.

> 1. **As a Kubernetes Controller:** Run the [ngrok Kubernetes Operator](/k8s/) in a Kubernetes environment.

Author: ```suggestion
1. **As a service:** Run a small side process called the [ngrok agent](/agent/) as a background OS service.
2. **As an interactive CLI:** Run the [ngrok agent](/agent/) interactively from the command line while developing and testing.
3. **As an SDK embedded in your app:** Include a small [Agent SDK](/agent-sdks) library directly into your application software that returns a socket-like object.
4. **As a Kubernetes Controller:** Run the [ngrok Kubernetes Operator](/k8s/) in a Kubernetes environment.
```

> ## ngrok versus traditional reverse proxies

Author: ```suggestion
## Gateway versus traditional reverse proxies
```

> ngrok doesn't forward to IP addresses like traditional reverse proxies and instead sends connections to your upstream service via a lightweight piece of agent software running alongside or in your application.

Author: ```suggestion
ngrok's Gateway doesn't forward to IP addresses like traditional reverse proxies; instead, it sends connections to your upstream service via a lightweight piece of agent software running alongside or within your application.
```

> This unique architecture confers several important benefits over the traditional model.

Author: ```suggestion
This unique architecture confers several important benefits over the traditional model:
```

First, it means you can run your services _anywhere_—any cloud such as AWS or Azure, any application platform like Heroku, an on-prem data center, a Raspberry Pi in your home, or even on your laptop.

Second, it allows ngrok to provide ingress with zero networking configuration.
You don't need to work with arcane networking primitives like DNS, IPs, certificates, or ports.

> That configuration is pushed to ngrok's cloud service and it's all handled automatically for you.

Author: ```suggestion
You don't need to work with arcane networking primitives like DNS, IPs, certificates, or ports—that configuration is pushed to ngrok's cloud service and it's all handled automatically for you.
```

> Third, ngrok can protect you from attacks and enforce authentication without the concern that someone could 'go around' ngrok by discovering your upstream IP addresses.

Author: ```suggestion
Third, ngrok can protect you from attacks and enforce authentication without the concern that someone could "go around" ngrok by discovering your upstream IP addresses.
```
